[Music]
what would happen if the Sun disappeared
the Sun is the closest star to earth
only thanks to the Sun life as we know
it exists it's light hits the surface of
the planet making it warm enough for
living organisms to develop and live on
plants convert solar energy into
chemical energy they give us oxygen to
breathe and so you can go to the beach
and have a tap but what would happen if
the Sun disappeared right now what do
you think
well I don't know but you know let me
take a wild guess um it would get dark
well would we even notice that how long
would we be able to survive without the
Sun would it be cold enough for the
Russians to consider moving to a
different planet
well in this video brightside decided to
take a look at this hypothetical
situation and imagine what it would be
like to live on earth without the Sun
therefore well let's go to the dark side
counting down from number five we would
have no idea at first seriously
the Sun is eight light minutes away from
Earth a light meant it is a distance
that light can travel in one minute for
example if you were on Mars and your
friend were here on earth that's imagine
you both have good enough eyes to see
each other if you wave to your friend he
would see you only in about 30 minutes
depending on how far Mars would be at
the moment here's another example if 65
million light years away there were some
advanced creatures that had powerful
telescopes they would be able to see
dinosaurs walking on earth or rather
making their last steps because that's
when they went extinct approximately the
sunlight reflected by earth would need
65 million years to reach the creatures
eyes or whatever they use to see things
as we know nothing literally nothing in
the universe can travel faster than
light so right after the Sun disappeared
it would take 8 minutes for this good
news to reach us even the gravitational
pull that the Sun has on our
would also end only in 8 minutes so the
earth would continue orbiting the spot
where the Sun had been as if nothing
happened but for only eight minutes
after that our planet would start to fly
in a straight line and that's when mass
panic would probably start as people try
to return those solar panels they just
had installed number four it would be
very dark hey yeah I was right man yes
you were
those are on the night side wouldn't
notice anything at first but only until
the moon would disappear as it would
have no sunlight to reflect other
planets would vanish into darkness one
after another as the last bits of
reflected light would reach our eyes
distant stars would be our only source
of light outside the planet it would be
quite enough to be able to see around a
bit photosynthesis would stop so plants
would no longer be able to produce
life-sustaining oxygen it might sound
like a serious issue but it isn't
collectively all living humans all
insects and all animals would still have
enough oxygen to breathe for about
another thousand years there would be a
much bigger problem though yeah
especially if you own the sunglasses
shop you know I didn't think of that
anyways number three it would be
extremely cold without any source of
heat earth would cool down very quickly
within just the first week the planet
would be about 32 degrees Fahrenheit or
zero degrees Celsius it doesn't sound
that scary right especially taking into
account fuels that we have we would most
likely get along fine without the Sun
for the first few months but by the end
of the first year without the Sun it
would be so cold that the only way for
us and other organisms to survive would
be to go underground as deep as possible
the closer you would live to the core
the better chances you would have but
that would involve a lot of digging
seriously speaking though none of us
would be able to live if we didn't find
a way to leave earth
number two oceans would freeze over well
this just keeps getting better and
better because of the extreme
temperatures the surface of oceans would
become a giant skating rink but only the
surface it's not that the ice would be
thin and you'd have to think twice
before jumping on it nope
the thing is that is has been estimated
that liquid water would continue to
exist at the bottom of our oceans for
billions of years it wouldn't freeze
because the Earth's core would still be
very hot and number one some organisms
would be just fine now sorry humans are
not among them only the smallest
creatures such as those that live in the
Mariana Trench could survive the
disappearance of our star they don't
require photosynthesis they convert heat
into the energy they need so as long as
the water would be liquid
the organisms would be alive just
imagine our planet all frozen traveling
through the universe for billions of
years
still conserving what is left of life
before the Sun left us maybe one day
we'll come close enough to a different
star and get into its gravitational pull
and star orbiting around it
in this case the ice would melt and the
planet would heat so those microbes
would have a chance to evolve into other
types of life but in such conditions the
chances that humans would appear as a
result of this evolution are slightly
bigger than zero on the other hand the
leftovers of our civilization would most
likely still be there other forms of
intelligent life could see what we were
like you see after all the sun's
disappearance might not be that terrible
yeah if you're a microbe well another
comforting thought is that the Sun will
die only in about five billion years
from now so we have plenty of time to
look for a new home and that's enough of
the dark side did we forget any other
dire consequences of the son's
disappearance tell us in the comment
section below don't forget to hit the
like button and share this video with
your friends click subscribe to join us
on the courtesy of the Sun bright side
of life
[Music]